Falco + FluentBit: Detect Malicious Behavior Part 2 (#485)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/falco-detect-malicious-behavior-through-audit-logs-part-2.md

---
title: "Detect Malicious Behaviour on Kubernetes API Server through gathering Audit Logs by using FluentBit - Part 2"
date: 2021-07-22
author: Batuhan Apaydın
slug: detect-malicious-behaviour-on-kubernetes-api-server-through-gathering-audit-logs-by-using-fluentbit-part-2
---

## Introduction

> In the [previous blog post](https://falco.org/blog/detect-malicious-behaviour-on-kubernetes-api-server-through-audit-logs/), we had talked about the Audit Logs in more detail, this post is a continuation of the previous blog post, so I suggest you take a look at the previous blog post before continuing reading. The only difference in this blog post is that this time we will use [Log Backend](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/audit/#log-backend) mode which is one of the [Audit Backends](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/audit/#audit-backends) that `kube-apiserver` supports, then we will use some kind of log collector project which is `FluentBit` in this case to gather these audit logs and forward them to some http endpoint. You might be thinking why this kind of architecture can be more useful, the answer is that in the previous blog post we used `Webhook Backend` mode, so we could send the audit logs to the one location only. But with using `Log Backend` mode and `FluentBit`, we are now able to send audit logs to different locations, so we are now more flexible in this regard.

Author: thank you so much, fixed

Let's get provision a local Kubernetes cluster:

```shell
$ minikube config view
- cpus: 3
- driver: virtualbox
- memory: 8192

$ minikube start
😄  minikube v1.22.0 on Darwin 10.15.7
✨  Using the virtualbox driver based on existing profile
👍  Starting control plane node minikube in cluster minikube
🔄  Restarting existing virtualbox VM for "minikube" ...
🐳  Preparing Kubernetes v1.21.2 on Docker 20.10.6 ...
🔎  Verifying Kubernetes components...
    ▪ Using image gcr.io/k8s-minikube/storage-provisioner:v5
🌟  Enabled addons: storage-provisioner
🏄  Done! kubectl is now configured to use "minikube" cluster and "default" namespace by default
```

### Enable Kubernetes Audit Logging

Let's [connect to the Minikube instance](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/commands/ssh/), which runs in VM, and download the [Audit Policy](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/website/main/content/en/examples/audit/audit-policy.yaml) file. This file is kind of a filter to decide what should be in the Audit Logs. This Audit Log file can grow very quickly and cause some performance issues if we didn't filter anything.

> > This is not the recommended Audit Policy file, this is just an example, it would be better to prepare your Audit Policy file that suitable for your needs.

Author: thank you so much, fixed

```shell
$ minikube ssh
            _         _ ( )           ( )
  ___ ___  (_)  ___  (_)| |/')  _   _ | |_      __
/' _ ` _ `\| |/' _ `\| || , <  ( ) ( )| '_`\  /'__`\
| ( ) ( ) || || ( ) || || |\`\ | (_) || |_) )(  ___/
(_) (_) (_)(_)(_) (_)(_)(_) (_)`\___/'(_,__/'`\____)
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/audit
$ sudo curl -sLo /etc/kubernetes/audit/audit-policy.yaml \
       https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/website/main/content/en/examples/audit/audit-policy.yaml
```

> Let's edit the kube-apiserver which is deployed as [static Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/static-pod/)  with the necessarry flags and volumes to enable the `Audit Logging.`

Author: thank you so much, fixed

```shell
$ sudo vi /etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml
# Update Result
spec.containers.kube-apiserver.command
  + two list entries added:
    - --audit-policy-file=/etc/kubernetes/audit/audit-policy.yaml
    - --audit-log-path=/var/log/kubernetes/kube-apiserver-audit.log

spec.containers.kube-apiserver.volumeMounts
  + two list entries added:
    - name: audit-log
    │ mountPath: /var/log/kubernetes/kube-apiserver-audit.log
    │ readOnly: false
    - name: audit-policy
    │ mountPath: /etc/kubernetes/audit/audit-policy.yaml
    │ readOnly: true

spec.volumes
  + two list entries added:
    - name: audit-log
    │ hostPath:
    │ │ type: FileOrCreate
    │ │ path: /var/log/kubernetes/kube-apiserver-audit.log
    - name: audit-policy
    │ hostPath:
    │ │ type: File
    │ │ path: /etc/kubernetes/audit/audit-policy.yaml
```

> > Once you updated the manifest file, the kube-apiserver can't be reachable for a while, so please keep try until the kube-apiserver becoming healthy.

Author: thank you so much, fixed

> The audit log file should be generated when the kube-apiserver become healthy, so please be sure about this before moving into the next phase.

Author: thank you so much, fixed

```shell
$ minikube ssh
            _         _ ( )           ( )
  ___ ___  (_)  ___  (_)| |/')  _   _ | |_      __
/' _ ` _ `\| |/' _ `\| || , <  ( ) ( )| '_`\  /'__`\
| ( ) ( ) || || ( ) || || |\`\ | (_) || |_) )(  ___/
(_) (_) (_)(_)(_) (_)(_)(_) (_)`\___/'(_,__/'`\____)
$  ls -latr /var/log/kubernetes/
total 4868
drwxr-xr-x 6 root root    4096 Jul 21 17:37 ..
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root    4096 Jul 21 17:37 .
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 4973184 Jul 21 18:39 kube-apiserver-audit.log
```

### Install Falco and Falcosidekick with Auditing Feature Enabled

> We'll use Helm to install the Falco, so, there is an option that we can enable or disable the audit log feature called `auditLog.enabled`, once we set the value of the option as `true`, the embedded webserver will be started within the Falco to consume audit events from the port `8765` and behind `k8s-audit` endpoint.

Author: thank you so much, fixed

```shell
$ kubectl get pods --namespace falco
NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
falco-falcosidekick-76f5885f7f-956vj      1/1     Running   0          4m27s
falco-falcosidekick-76f5885f7f-tmff6      1/1     Running   0          4m27s
falco-falcosidekick-ui-5b64749bc8-k8v4p   1/1     Running   0          4m27s
falco-h4qvx                               1/1     Running   0          4m27s 
```

Check your services within the namespace `falco`, and you should see that Falco service has `8765` port, let's verify that.

```shell
$ kubectl get services --namespace falco
NAME                     TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
falco                    ClusterIP   10.96.156.167   <none>        8765/TCP   4m40s
falco-falcosidekick      ClusterIP   10.105.37.184   <none>        2801/TCP   4m40s
falco-falcosidekick-ui   ClusterIP   10.111.57.54    <none>        2802/TCP   4m40s
```

The argument `falcosidekick.enabled=true` sets the following settings in `Falco` for you:

```shell
--set falco.jsonOutput=true \
--set falco.httpOutput.enabled=true \
--set falco.httpOutput.url=http://falco-falcosidekick:2801
```

> The arguments `--set falco.jsonOutput=true --set falco.httpOutput.enabled=true --set falco.httpOutput.url=http://falco-falcosidekick:2801` are there to configure the format of events and the URL where `Falco` will send them. As `Falco` and `Falcosidekick` will be in the same namespace, it can directly use the name of the service(`falco-falcosidekick`) above `Falcosidekick` pods.

Author: thank you so much, fixed

We check the logs:

```shell
$ kubectl logs deployment/falco-falcosidekick --namespace falco
Found 2 pods, using pod/falco-falcosidekick-76f5885f7f-tmff6
2021/05/22 15:46:58 [INFO]  : Enabled Outputs : [WebUI]
2021/05/22 15:46:58 [INFO]  : Falco Sidekick is up and listening on :2801
````

`WebUI` is displayed as enabled output, everything is good 👍.

### Deploy FluentBit

> In order to deploy FluentBit, we're going to use it's Helm chart with our own configurations.

Author: thank you so much, fixed

NAMESPACE: logging
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
NOTES:
Get Fluent Bit build information by running these commands:

export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace logging -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=fluent-bit,app.kubernetes.io/instance=fluent-bit" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
echo "curl http://127.0.0.1:2020 for Fluent Bit build information"
kubectl --namespace logging port-forward $POD_NAME 2020:2020
```

Now we are ready to test everything.

### Test

There is a rule called `Create/Modify Configmap With Private Credentials` in Falco for detecting ConfigMaps that contains private credentials from `Kubernetes Audit Logs`. You can see the details of the rule from this [link](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/blob/master/rules/k8s_audit_rules.yaml#L185). To test this, we should create a ConfigMap that contains private credentials.

```shell
$ kubectl --namespace=falco port-forward svc/falco-falcosidekick-ui 2802
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:2802 -> 2802
Forwarding from [::1]:2802 -> 2802
```

Now, let's create the ConfigMap.

```shell
$ kubectl create configmap aws-creds \
  --from-literal aws_access_key_id=AKES20LNOA
configmap/aws-creds created
```

> As soon as you created the ConfigMap, the Audit Log will be generated then FluentBit will gather the audit log and send it to the Falco, Falco will detect the malicious behaviour from the audit logs and send an alert to the Falcosidekick. Finally, Falcosidekick forwards the alert to the Web UI. So, you should see the similar screens like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as you created the ConfigMap, the Audit Log will be generated, then FluentBit will gather the audit log and send it to Falco. In turn, Falco will detect the malicious behavior from the audit logs and send an alert to the Falcosidekick. Finally, Falcosidekick forwards the alert to the Web UI. So, you should see similar screens like the following:
```

Author: thank you so much, fixed
